# App Chooser

## Description

Interface for choosing an application

This backend can be used by portal implementations that need to choose an application from a list of applications.

This documentation describes version 2 of this interface.

## Methods

### org.freedesktop.impl.portal.AppChooser.ChooseApplication

    ChooseApplication (
      IN handle o,
      IN app_id s,
      IN parent_window s,
      IN choices as,
      IN options a{sv},
      OUT response u,
      OUT results a{sv}
    )

Presents a list of applications to the user to choose one.

Supported keys in the `options` vardict include:

- `last_choice` (`s`)

  The app id that was selected the last time.

- `modal` (`b`)

  Whether to make the dialog modal. Defaults to yes.

- `content_type` (`s`)

  The content type to choose an application for.

- `uri` (`s`)

  The uri to choose an application for.

- `filename` (`s`)

  The filename to choose an application for. Note that this is just a basename, without a path.

- `activation_token` (`s`)

  A token that can be used to activate the application chooser.

  The activation_token option was introduced in version 2 of the interface.

The following results get returned via the `results` vardict:

- `choice` (`s`)

  The app id that was selected.

- `activation_token` (`s`)

  A token that can be used to activate the chosen application. If the application selection has involved user interaction, a new token should be generated by the portal implementation. Otherwise, this token may be the same as the one passed in `options`.

  The activation_token option was introduced in version 2 of the interface.

handle  
Object path to export the Request object at

app_id  
App id of the application

parent_window  
Identifier for the application window, see [Window Identifiers](window-identifiers.md)

choices  
App ids of applications to let the user choose from

options  
Vardict with optional further information

response  
Numeric response

results  
Vardict with the results of the call

### org.freedesktop.impl.portal.AppChooser.UpdateChoices

    UpdateChoices (
      IN handle o,
      IN choices as
    )

This method can be called between the time of a ChooseApplication call and receiving the Response signal, to update the list of applications that are offered by the backend.

handle  
the request handle

choices  
App ids of applications to let the user choose from
