# NAME

xfs_mdrestore - restores an XFS metadump image to a filesystem image

# SYNOPSIS

**xfs_mdrestore** \[ **-gi** \] \[ **-l** *logdev* \] \[ **-r** *rtdev* \] *source* *target*
**xfs_mdrestore** **-i** \[ **-l** *logdev* \] \[ **-r** *rtdev* \] *source*
**xfs_mdrestore -V**

# DESCRIPTION

**xfs_mdrestore** is a debugging tool that restores a metadata image generated by **xfs_metadump**(8) to a filesystem. The *source* argument specifies the location of the metadump image and the *target* argument specifies the destination for the filesystem image. If the *source* is -, then the metadata image is read from stdin. This allows the output of be another program such as a compression application to be redirected to **xfs_mdrestore**. The *target* can be either a file or a device.

**xfs_mdrestore** should not be used to restore metadata onto an existing filesystem unless you are completely certain the *target* can be destroyed.

# OPTIONS

**-g**
Shows restore progress on stdout.

**-i**
Shows metadump information on stdout. If no *target* is specified, exits after displaying information. Older metadumps man not include any descriptive information.

**-l*** logdev*
Metadump in v2 format can contain metadata dumped from an external log. In such a scenario, the user has to provide a device to which the log device contents from the metadump file are copied.

**-r*** rtdev*
Restore realtime device metadata to this device. This is only required for a metadump in v2 format.

**-V**
Prints the version number and exits.

# DIAGNOSTICS

**xfs_mdrestore** returns an exit code of 0 if all the metadata is successfully restored or 1 if an error occurs.

# SEE ALSO

**xfs_metadump**(8), **xfs_repair**(8), **xfs**(5)

# BUGS

Email bug reports to **linux-xfs@vger.kernel.org**.
