# NAME

tlp-stat - view power saving status

# SYNOPSIS

**tlp-stat **\[***options*\] \[**--** *CONFIG_PARAM***=***value* ... \]**

# DESCRIPTION

View configuration, system information, kernel power saving tunables and battery data. Invocation without options shows all information categories.

# OPTIONS

## System Operation

**-s, --system**
View system information and TLP status.

**-m, --mode**
Print currently active TLP profile.

## Configuration

**-c, --config**
View active configuration.

**--cdiff**
View the difference between defaults and user configuration.

**-- *CONFIG_PARAM***=***value* ...**
Append configuration parameters to a command. These temporarily override the system configuration during execution of that command only and are not kept afterwards. Disclaimer: this feature exists for the sole purpose of test automation during TLP's development. It is provided as is and there is no support whatsoever.

## Power Saving

**-d, --disk**
View disk device tunables.

**-e, --pcie**
View PCIe device tunables. Add **-v** to see device runtime status.

**-g, --graphics**
View graphics card tunables. Add **-v** to see power state and clocks of AMD GPUs.

**-p, --processor**
View processor tunables. For clarity the standard output shows only cpu0. Add **-v** to see all cpus. Add **-q** to see cpu driver state only.

**-r, --rfkill**
View radio device states and tunables. Add **-v** to see NetworkManager and rfkill details.

**-u, --usb**
View USB device tunables. Add **-v** to see device runtime status.

## Battery Care

**-b, --battery**
View battery data and battery care features supported by your hardware. Add **-v** to see battery voltages (if available).

## Information

**-q, --quiet**
Omit version header and show less information in the processor category.

**-t, --temp**
View temperatures and fan speed. Add **-v** to see all individual sensors.

**-v, --verbose**
Show more information in the battery, graphics, PCIe, processor, temperature, wireless and USB categories.

**--version**
Print TLP version.

## Diagnostics and Debugging

**--pd-diag**
View tlp-pd diagnostics.

**-P, --pev**
Monitor power supply udev events.

**--psup**
View power supply diagnostics.

**-T, --trace**
View trace output for tlp and tlp-pd.

**--trace-nm**
View trace output correlated with NetworkManager journal.

**--udev**
Check if udev rules for power source changes and connecting USB devices are active.

**-w, --warn**
View warnings about SATA disks.

# AUTHORIZATION

Many (but not all) **tlp-stat** commands require root privileges.

# FILES

*/etc/tlp.conf*

> System-wide user configuration file, uncomment parameters here to override default settings and customization files below.

*/etc/tlp.d/\*.conf*

> System-wide drop-in customization files, overriding defaults below.

*/usr/share/tlp/defaults.conf*

> Intrinsic default settings. DO NOT EDIT this file, instead use one of the above alternatives.

*/run/tlp/run.conf*

> Effective settings consolidated from all above files. DO NOT CHANGE this file, it is for reference only and regenerated on every invocation of TLP.

# SEE ALSO

**tlp**(8), **tlpctl**(8).

- TLP documentation: \<https://linrunner.de/tlp\>

- Battery care specifics: \<https://linrunner.de/tlp/settings/bc-vendors.html\>

# BUGS

Report bugs to: \<https://github.com/linrunner/TLP/issues\>.

# AUTHOR

\(c\) 2026 Thomas Koch \<linrunner at gmx.net\>
